---
title: GIT
layout: post
date: 2018-05-23 08:00:01 -0600
categories: coding
tags: git tips
---

# {{title}}


## How to write Git commit messages

It's a good habit to make sure you commit messages read i way that they tell wat they change in your code.

- [a blog post on writing commit messages](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)

## Pull requests

Make sure that you come with suggestions.
Explain why you think something is better.

## History

### Change the history

With actions that change the history like amend, rebase, ec. You have to make sure that you don't effect others or communicate with them about it.
Also a squash commits makes on a branch makes if difficult to rebase on it.

### Find the commits and changes for a line

With this command in the git bash shell you get get a list of the changed. You need to fill in the path from the git root.
`L59,62` stand for between line 59 and 60.

```bash
$ git log -L59,62:Main/Src/Common/Common/PetroSignsConfiguration.cs
```

## Remove files 

To stop tracking a file you need to remove it from the index. This can be achieved with this command.
This is also needed for file that are checked in before you put them on ignore. 

`git rm --cached <file>`

If you want to remove a whole folder, you need to remove all files in it recursively.

`git rm -r --cached <folder>`

## other git links

- [if there are things that went wrong](http://ohshitgit.com/)

## Long file paths

See this [thread](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/22575662/filename-too-long-in-git-for-windows)

Git has a limit of 4096 characters for a filename, except on Windows when Git is compiled with msys. It uses an older version of the Windows API and there's a limit of 260 characters for a filename.
So as far as I understand this, it's a limitation of msys and not of Git. You can read the details here: https://github.com/msysgit/git/pull/110
You can circumvent this by using another Git client on Windows or set core.longpaths to true as explained in other answers.
`git config --system core.longpaths true`

Means you can push whatever you have now, but the develops need to invoke `git config --system core.longpaths true`

## cleanup old local branches with powershell

To remove old local branches that are not online use:

```git branch -vv | where {$_ -match '\[origin/.*: gone\]'} | foreach {git branch -D ($_.split(" ", [StringSplitOptions]'RemoveEmptyEntries')[0])}```

## list the most changed files

`git log --pretty=format: --name-only | Where-Object { ![string]::IsNullOrEmpty($_) } | Sort-Object | Group-Object  | Sort-Object -Property Count -Descending | Select-Object -Property Count, Name -First 20`

## Rename a branch

If you want to rename the current branch:
`git branch -m <oldname> <newname>`

If you want to rename the current branch, you can do:
`git branch -m <newname>`

A way to remember this is -m is for "move" (or mv), which is how you rename files.
If you are on Windows or another case-insensitive filesystem, and there are only capitalization changes in the name, you need to use -M, otherwise, git will throw branch already exists error:
`git branch -M <newname>`

## Show most changed files 

``` 
    git log --pretty=format: --name-only | Where-Object { ![string]::IsNullOrEmpty($_) } | Sort-Object | Group-Object  | Sort-Object -Property Count -Descending | Select-Object -Property Count, Name -First 10 
``` 

## git search

You can search in Git like a pro with one simple command. Better still, you can search in Git even if you aren't sure which commit—or even branch—you made your changes.

`$ git rev-list --all | xargs git grep -F ‘’`
For exampel, a search for the string "font-size: 252 px;" in your repository:

>`$ git rev-list –all | xargs git grep -F ‘font-size: 252 px;’`
> F3022…9e12:HtmlTemplate/style.css: font-size: 252 px;
> E9211…8244:RR.Web/Content/style/style.css: font-size: 252 px;

## Git conflicts take all theis/ours 

When having merge conficts and you want alls the conflics to resole when taken theirs you can use: 
```
git checkout --theirs .
git add .
```

And for ours
```
git checkout --ours .
git add .
```



## links

- [cleanup](https://railsware.com/blog/git-housekeeping-tutorial-clean-up-outdated-branches-in-local-and-remote-repositories/)
- [Deleting Old Local Branches With PowerShell](https://dalehirt.wordpress.com/2017/11/20/git-tip-deleting-old-local-branches-with-powershell/)
